Improve question documentation (#11830)
PrairieLearn/PrairieLearn: docs/question/html.md

# `question.html`

## Template file

> All `question.html` files are rendered with the [Mustache](https://mustache.github.io/mustache.5.html) template engine. Outside direct variable substitution, you can use Mustache to do things like conditionally render elements. For example, you can use the following syntax to conditionally render a piece of HTML:

Reviewer: I think the only other notable/relevant thing Mustache does is rendering over arrays. Consider a small example here (won't at all block on this).

```html title="question.html"
{{#params.show}}
<p>This will only show up if params.show is true</p>
{{/params.show}}
```

!!! tip

    If you use triple-braces (e.g. `{{{params.html}}}`) then raw HTML is substituted (don't use this unless you know you need it).

## Markdown in questions

HTML and custom elements are great for flexibility and expressiveness. However, they're
not great for working with large amounts of text, formatting text, and so on.
[Markdown](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet) is a lightweight

> plaintext markup syntax that's ideal for authoring simple but rich text. PrairieLearn recommends you author all the text of your questions in Markdown.

Reviewer: Nit: conventionally we don't usually hard-wrap Markdown.

Author: 8de961fa8bacdf280e06dd8f5e73d124836d5b15

> plaintext markup syntax that's ideal for authoring simple but rich text. PrairieLearn recommends you author all the text of your questions in Markdown.

Reviewer: > PrairieLearn recommends you author all the text of your questions in Markdown.

This is not at all something we've ever done. I'm not comfortable adding such a blanket recommendation in this PR.

# `question.html`

## Template file

> All `question.html` files are rendered with the [Mustache](https://mustache.github.io/mustache.5.html) template engine. Outside direct variable substitution, you can use Mustache to do things like conditionally render elements and render over arrays. For example, you can use the following syntax to conditionally render a piece of HTML:

Reviewer 2: Is it worth including these examples at all? This is essentially reproducing limited parts of the mustache documentation, so I'm not sure how much of a value-add there is over just pointing people to the relevant sections over there.

Author: In my opinion it is at least worth linking to these two features on the spec, but it doesn't look like you can link to sections of that page.

Reviewer: I think including a few basic examples here is a good idea.

Here's a slight rework of this (feel free to edit):

```suggestion
All `question.html` files are processed with the [Mustache template engine](https://mustache.github.io/mustache.5.html), which allows for basic dynamic rendering of HTML. For example, you can use the following syntax to conditionally render a piece of HTML:
```

```html title="question.html"
{{#params.show}}
<p>This will only show up if params.show is true</p>
{{/params.show}}
```

and this syntax to render over an array of strings (the `.` represents the current item in the array):

```html title="question.html"
{{#params.items}}
<p>{{.}}</p>
{{/params.items}}
```

!!! tip

>     If you use triple-braces (e.g. `{{{params.html}}}`) then raw HTML is substituted (don't use this unless you know you need it).

Reviewer 3: I think it may be a good idea to strongly discourage the use of this feature with student submissions (pl-xss-safe may be suggested in that case).

Author: I suggested `pl-xss-safe` and explained the security context in 189fcab7d634a129d31bfb5c5fd1de4e2ee3cbd9.

## Markdown in questions

HTML and custom elements are great for flexibility and expressiveness. However, they're not great for working with large amounts of text, formatting text, and so on. [Markdown](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet) is a lightweight plaintext markup syntax that's ideal for authoring simple but rich text.

You can use the special `<markdown>` tag to automatically convert its contents to HTML. Here's an example `question.html` that utilizes this element:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```html title="question.html"
<markdown>

> # Hello, world! This is some **Markdown** text.

Reviewer 3: I think this was not intended to be combined...

Author: My lines `8-10` look like:

````
```html title="question.html"
{{#params.show}}
<p>This will only show up if params.show is true</p>
{{/params.show}}
```
````

Reviewer 3: Did you comment on the wrong thread?

Author: Oops, I didn't understand what you meant. Fixed in ba0c214210eee08d5d93aec6e2de7d1ed3537069.

!!! warning

>     Markdown recognizes indentation as a code block, so text inside these tags should not be indented with the corresponding HTML content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Markdown recognizes indentation as a code block, so text inside these tags should **not** be indented with the corresponding HTML content.
```

### Escaping `<markdown>` tags

> PrairieLearn defines a special escape syntax to allow a literal `<markdown>` or `</markdown>` tag in your question. If you have `<markdown#>` or `</markdown#>` in a Markdown block, they will be rendered as `<markdown>` and `</markdown>` respectively (but will not be used to find regions of text to process as Markdown).

Reviewer 3: Does this need a special subsection? This is such a niche use, I'd suggest moving it to an info box.

Author: I applied this change in 189fcab7d634a129d31bfb5c5fd1de4e2ee3cbd9.

## Rendering panels from `question.html`

> When a question is displayed to a student, there are three "panels" that will be shown at different stages: the `"question"` panel, the `"submission"` panel, and the `"answer"` panel. These display the question prompt, the solution provided by the student, and the correct answer.

Author: Maybe 3 screenshots, tabbed, each one with a red box around what panel is what?

> When a question is displayed to a student, there are three "panels" that will be shown at different stages: the `"question"` panel, the `"submission"` panel, and the `"answer"` panel. These display the question prompt, the solution provided by the student, and the correct answer.

Reviewer: I think an annotated screenshot of a question with labeled question/answer/submission panels would be good. No need for tabs.

> When a question is displayed to a student, there are three "panels" that will be shown at different stages: the `"question"` panel, the `"submission"` panel, and the `"answer"` panel. These display the question prompt, the solution provided by the student, and the correct answer.

Author: Added in [f4f67a4](https://github.com/PrairieLearn/PrairieLearn/pull/11830/commits/f4f67a410afb7ef2a1405e55c1eb9f982c7d036c).

## Hiding staff comments in `question.html`

HTML or JavaScript comments in your `question.html` source are visible to students in the rendered page source. To leave small maintenance notes to staff in your `question.html` source, you should use a Mustache comment `{{! ... }}` that won't be rendered in the final HTML.

To prevent students from seeing staff comments, you can use [Mustache comments](https://mustache.github.io/mustache.5.html#Comments) that will be removed during the rendering process. Never put sensitive information, such as solutions, in a HTML/JS comment.

Example:

```html
<!-- This is an HTML comment. It will not be visible to students in the web page, 
 but *will be included* in the rendered page source, so students may be able to
 see it by reading the HTML source. -->
{{! This is a Mustache comment. It will NOT be shown in the rendered page source. }}
```

> ## How questions are rendered

Author: I think this entire section could be removed -- 99% of instructors shouldn't care about this.

Reviewer: Absolutely, I put this in here back when we introduced the new renderer. A few people probably looked at this then, but it's not relevant anymore. I may just remove this in another PR to keep this diff cleaner.

Reviewer: I opened https://github.com/PrairieLearn/PrairieLearn/pull/11835 to remove it independently. Having it in a separate diff should make it slightly easier to find it in the future if we ever need it again.

## Rendering panels from `question.html`

When a question is displayed to a student, there are three "panels" that will be shown at different stages: the `"question"` panel, the `"submission"` panel, and the `"answer"` panel. These display the question prompt, the solution provided by the student, and the correct answer.

![Question panels](./panels.png)

> The `"question"` panel is displayed when the question is first shown to the student. The `"submission"` panel is displayed after the student submits an answer (but before they finish attempting the question), and the `"answer"` panel is displayed when the student either submits the correct answer or runs out of attempts. You can see the [lifecycle diagram](server.md#question-lifecycle) for more details on how these panels are displayed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `"question"` panel is displayed when the question is first shown to the student. A `"submission"` panel is displayed each time the student saves an answer; there may be multiple submission panels if the student submits multiple answers to the same variant. The `"answer"` panel is displayed based on question/assessment configuration; by default, it is shown when the student either submits the correct answer or runs out of attempts. You can see the [lifecycle diagram](server.md#question-lifecycle) for more details on how these panels are displayed.
```

Author: I applied this change in 189fcab7d634a129d31bfb5c5fd1de4e2ee3cbd9.

Author: In 04b49db60cb4d610934886f88dd8ca08c1714a47 I updated the lifecycle diagram to reflect this.

> All three panels display the same `question.html` template, but elements will render differently in each panel. For example, the `<pl-number-input>` element displays an input box in the "question" panel, the submitted answer in the "submissions" panel, and the correct answer in the "answer" panel.

Reviewer 3: Nit: the panels don't display the template.

```suggestion
All three panels are displayed based on the same `question.html` template, but elements will render differently in each panel. For example, the `<pl-number-input>` element displays an input box in the "question" panel, the submitted answer in the "submissions" panel, and the correct answer in the "answer" panel.
```

Author: I applied this change in 189fcab7d634a129d31bfb5c5fd1de4e2ee3cbd9.

All three panels display the same `question.html` template, but elements will render differently in each panel. For example, the `<pl-number-input>` element displays an input box in the "question" panel, the submitted answer in the "submissions" panel, and the correct answer in the "answer" panel.

Text in `question.html` can be set to only display in the "question" panel by wrapping it in the `<pl-question-panel>` element. This is useful for the question prompt, which doesn't need to be repeated in the "submission" and "answer" panels. There are also elements that only render in the other two panels.

## Hiding staff comments in `question.html`

HTML or JavaScript comments in your `question.html` source are visible to students in the rendered page source. To leave small maintenance notes to staff in your `question.html` source, you should use a Mustache comment `{{! ... }}` that won't be rendered in the final HTML.

> To prevent students from seeing staff comments, you can use [Mustache comments](https://mustache.github.io/mustache.5.html#Comments) that will be removed during the rendering process. Never put sensitive information, such as solutions, in a HTML/JS comment.

Reviewer 3: These two paragraphs are redundant, can you combine them?

Author: Combined in fe6a7ec84bb3933b3db7dcd0e4c6caa501306d25.
